# Executive Summary of CaseStudy1DDS
Frito Lay wants DDSAnalytics to build models to predict attrition, measure the cost impact of utilizing these models, and perform an exploratory data analysis to identify the top three factors that lead to attrition. 

DDSAnalytics has performed two classification models to predict attrition: 1. Naïve Bayes classification model and 2. KNN Classification model. The Naïve Bayes classification model perform with an accuracy rate of 80.08%, a sensitivity rate of 83.94%, and a specificity rate of 60.47%, and the KNN classification model perform with an accuracy rate of 74.71%, a sensitivity rate of 81.65%, and a specificity rate of 39.53%. Since the Naïve Bayes classification model has a higher accuracy rate, sensitivity rate, and specificity rate than the KNN classification model, DDSAnalytics has concluded that the Naïve Bayes classification model is the better model of the two. Therefore, the Naïve Bayes classification model is the model used to identify the top three factor that lead to attrition. which are 1. whether the employee works overtime or not, 2. the age of the employee, and 3. how frequently the employee goes on business trips.

One other finding that DDSAnalyics found in this study is the financial impact Frito Lay would have when using both classification models. Since costs Frito Lay between 50% and 400% of an employee’s salary to recruit a replacement for an employee who has left, using the Naïve Bayes classification model would be a financially better option in the long run compared to the KNN classification model. The Naïve Bayes classification model predicted that 17 employees stayed at Frito Lay when they actually left (false positive) compared to the 26 employees that were predicted by the KNN classification model. This indicates that it will cost less for Frito Lay to replace their employees when utilizing the Naïve Bayes model (between $644,367.66 and $5,154,941.28) compared to the KNN classification model (between $985,503.48 and $7,884,027.84).

Another finding that DDSAnalytics found in this study is the similarity in trend when comparing the attrition among different age groups and the overtime status among different age groups via grouped bar charts. Both grouped bar charts display that employees who are in their 20s and 30s are more likely to leave Frito Lay compared to the other age groups. Seeing that, Frito Lay must be mindful on how much work it is placing on their employees because more work leads to more of them working overtime, meaning they will have a higher chance of burnout, and therefore contribute to more attrition for Frito Lay.
